Stuck in Darkness

Stuck in Darkness is a text-based, turn-based RPG console game developed in Java. The game features an atmospheric dark fantasy narrative where the player embodies a bearer of light fighting through multiple corrupt worlds to uncover the nature of darkness and face its ultimate ruler.



Features

Turn-Based Combat System: Dynamic battle choices including basic attacks, shielding blocks, and powerful limited-use special abilities.
Polymorphic Enemy System: Diverse tiers of opponents including regular Mobs, challenging Minibosses, and unique World Bosses branching from a unified abstract implementation.
Structured Progression: Linear progression through five distinct atmospheric worlds, each containing dedicated sub-locations, distinct encounters, and unique NPC dialogues.
Interactive Narrative: Immersive slow-print text rendering to simulate a classic retro terminal quest experience, concluding with a major moral choice that determines the fate of the game universe.



Tech Stack

Language: Java 17 (compatible with Java 8 and above)
Core Libraries: Java Standard Utility Library (java.util.Scanner, java.util.Random, java.util.ArrayList)



Architecture Overview

Main: The main entry point that initializes the player, configures game elements, constructs worlds with localized enemy spawns, and bootstraps the main menu.
Menu: Manages the game lifecycle, intro cutscenes, player state validation across acts, and execution of the final multi-ending dialogue logic.
World and Location: Structural containers managing navigation flow, sequence transitions, narrative triggers, and initiation of battle sequences.
Battle: Encapsulates the core turn-based execution loop, evaluating randomized enemy actions against structural player inputs, and processing win/loss rewards.
Player and Enemy: Domain entities containing attribute state management, damage computation formulas, and transaction state logic for hit validation.

---

Game Mechanics and Combat Rules

During a battle turn, the player selects one of three strategic actions:

1. Attack (Unlimited): Inflicts full damage if the enemy attacks, or 50% damage if the enemy chooses to block.
2. Block (Unlimited): Absorbs 50% of incoming enemy damage if the enemy attacks. No damage is dealt if both entities choose to block.
3. Ability (Limited charges): Deals massive damage. Inflicts 75% damage if the enemy attempts to block.

Defeating an enemy restores 35 Health Points, permanently increases base attack power by 1.0, and grants +1 Ability Point.

---

Installation and Execution

Prerequisites

Ensure you have the Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your system.

Compilation

Compile all source files from your project root directory:

```bash
javac *.java

```

Execution

Run the compiled application:

```bash
java Main

```

---

Future Roadmap

Decouple battle state logic to fully eliminate duplicate code definitions inside subclasses.
Fix sequential execution loops inside the world navigation lifecycle layer.
Introduce an interactive terminal inventory system allowing players to collect and equip weapon drops.
